Overhaul Koji setup instructions (SOFTWARE-4042) (#748)
opensciencegrid/technology: docs/software/koji-workflow.md

**Repository**  
A yum repository created from the contents of a tag at a specific point in time. By default, the yum repository will contain all successful, non-blocked builds in the tag, plus all RPMs in the external repositories for the tag.

Obtaining Access
----------------

Building OSG packages in Koji requires these privileges:

- access to the OSG subversion repository at https://vdt.cs.wisc.edu/svn
- access to a login node at UW Comp Sci such as `moria.cs.wisc.edu`
- access to the Koji service via a grid user certificate

See the [user certificates document](https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/user-certs/)
for information about how to get a user certificate.

Open a Freshdesk ticket with the subject "Requesting access to Koji" with the following information:
- top 3 username choices for the login node and SVN

>   (8 characters max, no punctuation)

Reviewer: No punctuation as in no unicode accent marks over the a's in your name?

Or is it more like `^[A-Za-z_]\w{0,7}$`

Author: Technically the latter.
While saying "your username choice must match `/^[A-Za-z_]\w{0,7}$/`" is a nice shibboleth for new contributors, I don't think we wanna be that way :-)

Reviewer: "As your first test, you must pass through the new user regex!"  ;)

- the DN of your user certificate

Assign the ticket to the Software team.

Initial Setup
-------------

You will be using the [OSG Build Tools](/software/osg-build-tools) to interact with Koji.
You can use them on either your own machine or on your UW Comp Sci login node such as `moria`.

### Setting up on moria

Perform the following to set up the build tools on `moria`:

1.  Clone the osg-build git repo

        :::console
        you@moria$ git clone https://github.com/opensciencegrid/osg-build $HOME/osg-build

1.  Set your `$PATH`:

        :::console
        you@moria$ export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/osg-build
        you@moria$ export PATH=$PATH:/p/vdt/workspace/quilt/bin

>         you@moria$ export PATH=$PATH:/p/vdt/workspace/tarball-client/stable/sys

Reviewer: not that there's anything wrong with this example, but fyi the `exports` are redundant.  Only one `export` is needed to mark a variable name for export (which includes future changes to it). (Additionally `PATH` might be exported by default - but it doesn't hurt to put one in there for clarity.)

Author: yeah I just have them in there to line them up.

1.  Copy your user certificate and key into `$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem` and `$HOME/.globus/userkey.pem`.
    Make sure `userkey.pem` is only readable by yourself.

1.  (Optional) Load your certificate into your browser.
    This will allow you to make some changes using the [Koji web interface](https://koji.opensciencegrid.org/koji).

1.  Set up the OSG Koji config

        :::console
        you@moria$ osg-koji setup

>     Answer "yes" to all questions.

Reviewer: Rules for life, # 37.

### Setting up on your own host

This requires an Enterprise Linux 6 or 7 host.

1.  Install the [OSG YUM repositories](https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/common/yum/)

> 1.  If using OSG 3.5 or newer, enable the `devops` repository.

Reviewer: Is it worth noting here that it is also an option to add `--enablerepo=devops` to the `yum install` command lines?

1.  Install osg-build and its dependencies:

        :::console

>         you@host$ sudo yum install osg-build

Reviewer: Is it noted somewhere, or worth noting, that running from a git repo is still an option for "your machine" also?

1.  Install a program for getting grid certificates

        :::console
        you@host$ sudo yum install globus-proxy-utils

    !!! note
        If you already have `voms-clients-cpp` or `voms-clients-java` installed,
        you can use `voms-proxy-init -rfc` instead of `grid-proxy-init`,
        and don't need to install `globus-proxy-utils`.

1.  (Optional) If you want to do mock builds (these are local builds in a chroot), add yourself to the `mock` user group:

        :::console
        you@host$ sudo usermod -a -G mock $USER

1.  Copy your user certificate and key into `$HOME/.globus/usercert.pem` and `$HOME/.globus/userkey.pem`.
    Make sure `userkey.pem` is only readable by yourself.

    !!! note
        If you are using a certificate from SAML or Kerberos credentials, such as with `cigetcert` or `kx509`,
        skip this step.

1.  (Optional) Load your certificate into your browser.
    This will allow you to make some changes using the [Koji web interface](https://koji.opensciencegrid.org/koji).

1.  Set up the OSG Koji config

        :::console
        you@moria$ osg-koji setup

    Answer "yes" to all questions.

> Logging In to Koji

Reviewer: I think it feels a bit weird to call it "logging in to koji", if all you are doing is making a grid proxy (and that step doesn't communicate with koji at all).  The verify step isn't really logging in either, it's just testing your access.

I'm not sure what to call it instead, but something about it sounds slightly off to me.

Author: I changed it to "authenticating with koji", does that read better?

Reviewer: Sure, it's an improvement.  And i mean however you think about it is fine.  But yeah, to me, "logging in to koji" is what i do on the koji web interface when i hit "login".

The way i read it though, the point of this section is more like "establish credentials for koji". You do in fact "authenticate" with koji if you run the test step at the end, but that's just a confirmation step to verify that the main point (establishing credentials) was successful.

This actually first caught my attention [later](https://github.com/opensciencegrid/technology/pull/748/files#diff-f091234d2b0a018d3547e587bbe164a1R284) in the changes for this PR, where it says:

> Before using `osg-promote`, **log in to Koji as above**

Because it's not like you need to "log in to koji" first (or even "authenticate with koji" first), you just need to make sure you have established your credentials that will be used for koji.

And a further small detail about my wording: while it might very slightly more concise to say "establish koji credentials" (rather than "establish credentials for koji"), i would find that slightly misleading, since your grid credentials are not specific to koji; koji just happens to be one place where you use them.

Author: "establish credentials for koji" sounds like fine phrasing.

I'm going to turn your last comment around: your Koji credentials are not specifically grid credentials, since Koji has its own CA that can make them. Right now it's only been used for daemons and automated users, and all current humans users have credentials that also work on the grid (well, don't know about the Fermi certs you get when you run `kx509`), but me handing out certs is kinda a fallback plan in case (once?) OSG moves off of GSI.

------------------

To use the OSG Build tools and the Koji command-line client, you will need to log in to Koji first.
This involves getting a grid proxy certificate.
Do one of the following:

-   **On moria**<br>
    Run `osgrun grid-proxy-init` and type your grid certificate password.
    If you cannot find `osgrun`, ensure you have `/p/vdt/workspace/tarball-client/stable/sys` in your `$PATH`.

-   **On your local machine**<br>
    Run `grid-proxy-init` (if using `globus-proxy-utils`) or `voms-proxy-init -rfc` (if using `voms-clients`)
    and type your grid certificate password.

-   **On your local machine using SAML or Kerberos-based credentials**<br>
    Run `cigetcert` or `kx509` and perform whatever identification challenges you are asked.

To verify your login access and permissions, run:
```console

> you@host$ osg-koji list-permissions --mine

Reviewer: Will it be obvious from the output whether the user succeeded or not?

#### Using *osg-promote*

> Before using `osg-promote`, [log in to Koji as above](#logging-in-to-koji).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using `osg-promote`, [authenticate to Koji as above](#authenticating-to-koji).
```
